docs/source/functional.rst, before:

.. role:: hidden
    :class: hidden-section

torchaudio.functional
=====================

.. currentmodule:: torchaudio.functional

Functions to perform common audio operations.

:hidden:`Filtering`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


allpass_biquad
--------------

.. autofunction:: allpass_biquad

band_biquad
-----------

.. autofunction:: band_biquad

bandpass_biquad
---------------

.. autofunction:: bandpass_biquad

bandreject_biquad
-----------------

.. autofunction:: bandreject_biquad

bass_biquad
-----------

.. autofunction:: bass_biquad

biquad
------

.. autofunction:: biquad

contrast
--------

.. autofunction:: contrast

dcshift
-------

.. autofunction:: dcshift

deemph_biquad
-------------

.. autofunction:: deemph_biquad


dither
------

.. autofunction:: dither

equalizer_biquad
----------------

.. autofunction:: equalizer_biquad

flanger
-------

.. autofunction:: flanger

gain
----

.. autofunction:: gain

highpass_biquad
---------------

.. autofunction:: highpass_biquad

lfilter
-------

.. autofunction:: lfilter

lowpass_biquad
--------------

.. autofunction:: lowpass_biquad

overdrive
---------

.. autofunction:: overdrive

phaser
------

.. autofunction:: phaser

riaa_biquad
-----------

.. autofunction:: riaa_biquad

treble_biquad
-------------

.. autofunction:: treble_biquad


vad
---

.. autofunction:: vad

:hidden:`spectrogram`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: spectrogram

:hidden:`amplitude_to_DB`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: amplitude_to_DB

:hidden:`create_fb_matrix`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: create_fb_matrix

:hidden:`create_dct`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: create_dct

:hidden:`mu_law_encoding`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: mu_law_encoding

:hidden:`mu_law_decoding`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: mu_law_decoding

:hidden:`complex_norm`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: complex_norm

:hidden:`angle`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: angle

:hidden:`magphase`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: magphase

:hidden:`phase_vocoder`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: phase_vocoder

:hidden:`mask_along_axis`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: mask_along_axis

:hidden:`mask_along_axis_iid`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: mask_along_axis_iid

:hidden:`compute_deltas`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: compute_deltas

:hidden:`detect_pitch_frequency`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: detect_pitch_frequency

:hidden:`sliding_window_cmn`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: sliding_window_cmn

Commit message:

[Doc] Add missing modules and minor fixes (#1022)
* Add griffinlim and DB_to_amplitude
* Fix Dataset docstring
* Fix other formatting
Co-authored-by: krishnakalyan3 <skalyan@cloudera.com>

docs/source/functional.rst, after:

.. role:: hidden
    :class: hidden-section

torchaudio.functional
=====================

.. currentmodule:: torchaudio.functional

Functions to perform common audio operations.

:hidden:`Filtering`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


allpass_biquad
--------------

.. autofunction:: allpass_biquad

band_biquad
-----------

.. autofunction:: band_biquad

bandpass_biquad
---------------

.. autofunction:: bandpass_biquad

bandreject_biquad
-----------------

.. autofunction:: bandreject_biquad

bass_biquad
-----------

.. autofunction:: bass_biquad

biquad
------

.. autofunction:: biquad

contrast
--------

.. autofunction:: contrast

dcshift
-------

.. autofunction:: dcshift

deemph_biquad
-------------

.. autofunction:: deemph_biquad


dither
------

.. autofunction:: dither

equalizer_biquad
----------------

.. autofunction:: equalizer_biquad

flanger
-------

.. autofunction:: flanger

gain
----

.. autofunction:: gain

highpass_biquad
---------------

.. autofunction:: highpass_biquad

lfilter
-------

.. autofunction:: lfilter

lowpass_biquad
--------------

.. autofunction:: lowpass_biquad

overdrive
---------

.. autofunction:: overdrive

phaser
------

.. autofunction:: phaser

riaa_biquad
-----------

.. autofunction:: riaa_biquad

treble_biquad
-------------

.. autofunction:: treble_biquad


vad
---

.. autofunction:: vad

:hidden:`spectrogram`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: spectrogram

:hidden:`griffinlim`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: griffinlim

:hidden:`amplitude_to_DB`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: amplitude_to_DB

:hidden:`DB_to_amplitude`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: DB_to_amplitude

:hidden:`create_fb_matrix`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: create_fb_matrix

:hidden:`create_dct`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: create_dct

:hidden:`mu_law_encoding`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: mu_law_encoding

:hidden:`mu_law_decoding`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: mu_law_decoding

:hidden:`complex_norm`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: complex_norm

:hidden:`angle`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: angle

:hidden:`magphase`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: magphase

:hidden:`phase_vocoder`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: phase_vocoder

:hidden:`mask_along_axis`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: mask_along_axis

:hidden:`mask_along_axis_iid`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: mask_along_axis_iid

:hidden:`compute_deltas`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: compute_deltas

:hidden:`detect_pitch_frequency`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: detect_pitch_frequency

:hidden:`sliding_window_cmn`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. autofunction:: sliding_window_cmn
