docs/source/tutorial.rst, before:

torchaudio.tutorial
===================

.. currentmodule:: torchaudio.tutorial

Significant effort in solving machine learning problems goes into data
preparation. PyTorch provides many tools to make data loading easy and
more readable. In this tutorial, we will see how to load and preprocess
data from a simple dataset.

For this tutorial, please make sure the ``matplotlib`` package is
installed for easier visualization.

.. code:: ipython3

    import torch
    import torchaudio
    import matplotlib
    %matplotlib inline
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt


Opening a dataset
-----------------

Torch audio supports loading sound files in the wav and mp3 format with
``tensor, frequency = torchaudio.load(filename)``. It also supports
importing the VCTK and YESNO dataset `out of the
box <https://pytorch.org/audio/datasets.html>`__. For instance the VCTK
dataset can be loaded like so.

.. code:: ipython3

    dataset = torchaudio.datasets.VCTK("~/VCTK", download=True)

Let’s quickly see how many samples there are in this dataset.

.. code:: ipython3

    dataset.num_samples
    # 44257

But let’s focus on the first audio signal.

.. code:: ipython3

    ith_sample = 0
    tensor = dataset[ith_sample][0]
    
    tensor.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 235536])

    plt.plot(tensor.transpose(0,1).numpy())

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_8_0.png
    :width: 350 px


Migrating to Torch Audio from Kaldi
-----------------------------------

Users may be familiar with
`Kaldi <http://github.com/kaldi-asr/kaldi>`__, a toolkit for speech
recognition. Torch Audio offers compatibility with it in
``torchaudio.kaldi_io``. It can indeed read from kaldi scp, or ark file
or streams with:

-  read_vec_int_ark
-  read_vec_flt_scp
-  read_vec_flt_arkfile/stream
-  read_mat_scp
-  read_mat_ark


Transformations
---------------

Torch audio supports a growing list of
`transformations <https://pytorch.org/audio/transforms.html>`__.

-  **Scale**: Scale audio tensor from a 16-bit integer (represented as a
   FloatTensor) to a floating point number between -1.0 and 1.0. Note
   the 16-bit number is called the “bit depth” or “precision”, not to be
   confused with “bit rate”.
-  **PadTrim**: PadTrim a 2d-Tensor
-  **Downmix**: Downmix any stereo signals to mono.
-  **LC2CL**: Permute a 2d tensor from samples (n x c) to (c x n).
-  **Resample**: Resample the signal to a different frequency.
-  **Spectrogram**: Create a spectrogram from a raw audio signal
-  **MelScale**: This turns a normal STFT into a mel frequency STFT,
   using a conversion matrix. This uses triangular filter banks.
-  **SpectrogramToDB**: This turns a spectrogram from the
   power/amplitude scale to the decibel scale.
-  **MFCC**: Create the Mel-frequency cepstrum coefficients from an
   audio signal
-  **MelSpectrogram**: Create MEL Spectrograms from a raw audio signal
   using the STFT function in PyTorch.
-  **BLC2CBL**: Permute a 3d tensor from Bands x Sample length x
   Channels to Channels x Bands x Samples length.
-  **MuLawEncoding**: Encode signal based on mu-law companding.
-  **MuLawExpanding**: Decode mu-law encoded signal.

Since all transforms are nn.Modules or jit.ScriptModules, they can be
used as part of a neural network at any point.

To start, we can look at the log of the spectrogram on a log scale.

.. code:: ipython3

    spec = torchaudio.transforms.Spectrogram()(tensor)

    spec.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 1178, 201])

    plt.imshow(spec.log2().transpose(1,2)[0,:,:].numpy(), cmap='gray')

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_12_1.png
    :width: 350 px


Or we can look at the Mel Spectrogram on a log scale.

.. code:: ipython3

    mel = torchaudio.transforms.MelSpectrogram()(tensor)

    mel.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 1178, 128])

    plt.imshow(mel.log2().transpose(1,2)[0,:,:].detach().numpy(), cmap='gray')

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_14_1.png
    :width: 350 px


We can resample the signal.

.. code:: ipython3

    # Original frequency of the signal
    # NOTE It can be obtained when loading data: tensor, frequency = torchaudio.load(filename)
    original_frequency = 48000
    new_frequency = original_frequency/48

    resampled = torchaudio.transforms.Resample(original_frequency, new_frequency)(tensor)

    resampled.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 4907])

    plt.plot(resampled[0,:].numpy())

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_28_0.png
    :width: 350 px


We can also compose transformations. For instance, we can reduce the signal
from stereo to mono (if the signal is not already in mono) and revisit the
spectrogram. In our case, the signal was already mono since the size of the
tensor was 1 x n.

.. code:: ipython3

    spec = composed = torchaudio.transforms.Compose([
        torchaudio.transforms.LC2CL(),
        torchaudio.transforms.DownmixMono(),
        torchaudio.transforms.LC2CL(),
        torchaudio.transforms.Spectrogram(),
    ])(tensor)

    spec.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 1178, 201])

    plt.imshow(spec.log2().transpose(1,2)[0,:,:].numpy(), cmap='gray')

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_17_0.png
    :width: 350 px


As another example of transformations, we can encode the signal based on
the Mu-Law companding. But to do so, we need the signal to be between -1
and 1. Since the tensor is just a regular PyTorch tensor, we can apply
standard operators on it.

.. code:: ipython3

    # Let's check if the tensor is in the interval [-1,1]
    tensor.min(), tensor.max(), tensor.mean()
    # (tensor(-0.6873), tensor(0.7480), tensor(-4.2871e-06))

    def normalize(tensor):
        # Subtract the mean, and scale to the interval [-1,1]
        tensor_minusmean = tensor - tensor.mean()
        return tensor_minusmean/tensor_minusmean.abs().max()
    
    normalized = normalize(tensor)  # Let's normalize to the full interval [-1,1]
    
    plt.plot(normalized[0,:].numpy())

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_20_0.png
    :width: 350 px


.. code:: ipython3

    transformed = torchaudio.transforms.MuLawEncoding()(normalized)

    transformed.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 235536])

    plt.plot(transformed[0,:].numpy())

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_22_0.png
    :width: 350 px


.. code:: ipython3

    recovered = torchaudio.transforms.MuLawExpanding()(transformed)

    recovered.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 235536])

    plt.plot(recovered[0,:].numpy())

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_24_0.png
    :width: 350 px


.. code:: ipython3

    recovered = torchaudio.transforms.MuLawExpanding()(transformed)
    
    def compute_median_relative_difference(normalized, recovered):
        diff = (normalized-recovered)
        return (diff.abs()/normalized.abs()).median()
    
    err = compute_median_relative_difference(normalized, recovered)
    print("Median relative difference is {:.2%} between the original and MuLaw reconstucted signals".format(err))
    # Median relative difference is 1.49% between the original and MuLaw reconstucted signals


Conclusion
----------

We used the VCTK dataset to illustrate how to open a dataset or
another data using Torch Audio, and how to pre-process and transform an
audio signal. Given that Torch Audio is built on PyTorch, these
techniques can be used as building blocks for more advanced audio
applications, such as speech recognition.

Commit message:

center img. move kaldi at end. changing title.

docs/source/tutorial.rst, after:

Torch Audio Tutorial
===================

Significant effort in solving machine learning problems goes into data
preparation. PyTorch provides many tools to make data loading easy and
more readable. In this tutorial, we will see how to load and preprocess
data from a simple dataset.

For this tutorial, please make sure the ``matplotlib`` package is
installed for easier visualization.

.. code:: ipython3

    import torch
    import torchaudio
    import matplotlib
    %matplotlib inline
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt


Opening a dataset
-----------------

Torch audio supports loading sound files in the wav and mp3 format with
``tensor, frequency = torchaudio.load(filename)``. It also supports
importing the VCTK and YESNO dataset `out of the
box <https://pytorch.org/audio/datasets.html>`__. For instance the VCTK
dataset can be loaded like so.

.. code:: ipython3

    dataset = torchaudio.datasets.VCTK("~/VCTK", download=True)

Let’s quickly see how many samples there are in this dataset.

.. code:: ipython3

    dataset.num_samples
    # 44257

But let’s focus on the first audio signal.

.. code:: ipython3

    ith_sample = 0
    tensor = dataset[ith_sample][0]
    
    tensor.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 235536])

    plt.plot(tensor.transpose(0,1).numpy())

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_8_0.png
    :width: 350 px
    :align: center


Transformations
---------------

Torch audio supports a growing list of
`transformations <https://pytorch.org/audio/transforms.html>`__.

-  **Scale**: Scale audio tensor from a 16-bit integer (represented as a
   FloatTensor) to a floating point number between -1.0 and 1.0. Note
   the 16-bit number is called the “bit depth” or “precision”, not to be
   confused with “bit rate”.
-  **PadTrim**: PadTrim a 2d-Tensor
-  **Downmix**: Downmix any stereo signals to mono.
-  **LC2CL**: Permute a 2d tensor from samples (n x c) to (c x n).
-  **Resample**: Resample the signal to a different frequency.
-  **Spectrogram**: Create a spectrogram from a raw audio signal
-  **MelScale**: This turns a normal STFT into a mel frequency STFT,
   using a conversion matrix. This uses triangular filter banks.
-  **SpectrogramToDB**: This turns a spectrogram from the
   power/amplitude scale to the decibel scale.
-  **MFCC**: Create the Mel-frequency cepstrum coefficients from an
   audio signal
-  **MelSpectrogram**: Create MEL Spectrograms from a raw audio signal
   using the STFT function in PyTorch.
-  **BLC2CBL**: Permute a 3d tensor from Bands x Sample length x
   Channels to Channels x Bands x Samples length.
-  **MuLawEncoding**: Encode signal based on mu-law companding.
-  **MuLawExpanding**: Decode mu-law encoded signal.

Since all transforms are nn.Modules or jit.ScriptModules, they can be
used as part of a neural network at any point.

To start, we can look at the log of the spectrogram on a log scale.

.. code:: ipython3

    spec = torchaudio.transforms.Spectrogram()(tensor)

    spec.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 1178, 201])

    plt.imshow(spec.log2().transpose(1,2)[0,:,:].numpy(), cmap='gray')

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_12_1.png
    :width: 350 px
    :align: center


Or we can look at the Mel Spectrogram on a log scale.

.. code:: ipython3

    mel = torchaudio.transforms.MelSpectrogram()(tensor)

    mel.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 1178, 128])

    plt.imshow(mel.log2().transpose(1,2)[0,:,:].detach().numpy(), cmap='gray')

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_14_1.png
    :width: 350 px
    :align: center


We can resample the signal.

.. code:: ipython3

    # Original frequency of the signal
    # NOTE It can be obtained when loading data: tensor, frequency = torchaudio.load(filename)
    original_frequency = 48000
    new_frequency = original_frequency/48

    resampled = torchaudio.transforms.Resample(original_frequency, new_frequency)(tensor)

    resampled.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 4907])

    plt.plot(resampled[0,:].numpy())

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_28_0.png
    :width: 350 px
    :align: center


We can also compose transformations. For instance, we can reduce the signal
from stereo to mono (if the signal is not already in mono) and revisit the
spectrogram. In our case, the signal was already mono since the size of the
tensor was 1 x n.

.. code:: ipython3

    spec = composed = torchaudio.transforms.Compose([
        torchaudio.transforms.LC2CL(),
        torchaudio.transforms.DownmixMono(),
        torchaudio.transforms.LC2CL(),
        torchaudio.transforms.Spectrogram(),
    ])(tensor)

    spec.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 1178, 201])

    plt.imshow(spec.log2().transpose(1,2)[0,:,:].numpy(), cmap='gray')

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_17_0.png
    :width: 350 px
    :align: center


As another example of transformations, we can encode the signal based on
the Mu-Law companding. But to do so, we need the signal to be between -1
and 1. Since the tensor is just a regular PyTorch tensor, we can apply
standard operators on it.

.. code:: ipython3

    # Let's check if the tensor is in the interval [-1,1]
    tensor.min(), tensor.max(), tensor.mean()
    # (tensor(-0.6873), tensor(0.7480), tensor(-4.2871e-06))

    def normalize(tensor):
        # Subtract the mean, and scale to the interval [-1,1]
        tensor_minusmean = tensor - tensor.mean()
        return tensor_minusmean/tensor_minusmean.abs().max()
    
    normalized = normalize(tensor)  # Let's normalize to the full interval [-1,1]
    
    plt.plot(normalized[0,:].numpy())

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_20_0.png
    :width: 350 px
    :align: center


.. code:: ipython3

    transformed = torchaudio.transforms.MuLawEncoding()(normalized)

    transformed.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 235536])

    plt.plot(transformed[0,:].numpy())

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_22_0.png
    :width: 350 px
    :align: center


.. code:: ipython3

    recovered = torchaudio.transforms.MuLawExpanding()(transformed)

    recovered.size()
    # torch.Size([1, 235536])

    plt.plot(recovered[0,:].numpy())

.. image:: _static/img/tutorial_24_0.png
    :width: 350 px
    :align: center


.. code:: ipython3

    recovered = torchaudio.transforms.MuLawExpanding()(transformed)
    
    def compute_median_relative_difference(normalized, recovered):
        diff = (normalized-recovered)
        return (diff.abs()/normalized.abs()).median()
    
    err = compute_median_relative_difference(normalized, recovered)
    print("Median relative difference is {:.2%} between the original and MuLaw reconstucted signals".format(err))
    # Median relative difference is 1.49% between the original and MuLaw reconstucted signals


Migrating to Torch Audio from Kaldi
-----------------------------------

Users may be familiar with
`Kaldi <http://github.com/kaldi-asr/kaldi>`__, a toolkit for speech
recognition. Torch Audio offers compatibility with it in
``torchaudio.kaldi_io``. It can indeed read from kaldi scp, or ark file
or streams with:

-  read_vec_int_ark
-  read_vec_flt_scp
-  read_vec_flt_arkfile/stream
-  read_mat_scp
-  read_mat_ark


Conclusion
----------

We used the VCTK dataset to illustrate how to open a dataset or
another data using Torch Audio, and how to pre-process and transform an
audio signal. Given that Torch Audio is built on PyTorch, these
techniques can be used as building blocks for more advanced audio
applications, such as speech recognition.
